They Bribe the Lazy Quadling

"Now," said Dorothy, as they stood on the mountain path, having left
behind them the cave in which dwelt the Hoppers and the Horners, "I
think we must find a road into the Country of the Winkies, for there is
where Ojo wants to go next."

"Is there such a road?" asked the Scarecrow.

"I don't know," she replied. "I s'pose we can go back the way we came,
to Jack Pumpkinhead's house, and then turn into the Winkie Country; but
that seems like running 'round a haystack, doesn't it?"

"Yes," said the Scarecrow. "What is the next thing Ojo must get?"

"A yellow butterfly," answered the boy.

"That means the Winkie Country, all right, for it's the yellow country
of Oz," remarked Dorothy. "I think, Scarecrow, we ought to take him to
the Tin Woodman, for he's the Emp'ror of the Winkies and will help us
to find what Ojo wants."

"Of course," replied the Scarecrow, brightening at the suggestion. "The
Tin Woodman will do anything we ask him, for he's one of my dearest
friends. I believe we can take a crosscut into his country and so get
to his castle a day sooner than if we travel back the way we came."

"I think so, too," said the girl; "and that means we must keep to the
left."

They were obliged to go down the mountain before they found any path
that led in the direction they wanted to go, but among the tumbled
rocks at the foot of the mountain was a faint trail which they decided
to follow. Two or three hours walk along this trail brought them to a
clear, level country, where there were a few farms and some scattered
houses. But they knew they were still in the Country of the Quadlings,
because everything had a bright red color. Not that the trees and
grasses were red, but the fences and houses were painted that color and
all the wild-flowers that bloomed by the wayside had red blossoms. This
part of the Quadling Country seemed peaceful and prosperous, if rather
lonely, and the road was more distinct and easier to follow.

But just as they were congratulating themselves upon the progress they
had made they came upon a broad river which swept along between high
banks, and here the road ended and there was no bridge of any sort to
allow them to cross.

"This is queer," mused Dorothy, looking at the water reflectively. "Why
should there be any road, if the river stops everyone walking along it?"

"Wow!" said Toto, gazing earnestly into her face.

"That's the best answer you'll get," declared the Scarecrow, with his
comical smile, "for no one knows any more than Toto about this road."

Said Scraps:

"Ev'ry time I see a river,

I have chills that make me shiver,

For I never can forget

All the water's very wet.

If my patches get a soak

It will be a sorry joke;

So to swim I'll never try

Till I find the water dry."

"Try to control yourself, Scraps," said Ojo; "you're getting crazy
again. No one intends to swim that river."

"No," decided Dorothy, "we couldn't swim it if we tried. It's too big a
river, and the water moves awful fast."

"There ought to be a ferryman with a boat," said the Scarecrow; "but I
don't see any."

"Couldn't we make a raft?" suggested Ojo.

"There's nothing to make one of," answered Dorothy.

"Wow!" said Toto again, and Dorothy saw he was looking along the bank
of the river.

"Why, he sees a house over there!" cried the little girl. "I wonder we
didn't notice it ourselves. Let's go and ask the people how to get
'cross the river."

A quarter of a mile along the bank stood a small, round house, painted
bright red, and as it was on their side of the river they hurried
toward it. A chubby little man, dressed all in red, came out to greet
them, and with him were two children, also in red costumes. The man's
eyes were big and staring as he examined the Scarecrow and the
Patchwork Girl, and the children shyly hid behind him and peeked
timidly at Toto.

"Do you live here, my good man?" asked the Scarecrow.

"I think I do, Most Mighty Magician," replied the Quadling, bowing low;
"but whether I'm awake or dreaming I can't be positive, so I'm not sure
where I live. If you'll kindly pinch me I'll find out all about it!"

"You're awake," said Dorothy, "and this is no magician, but just the
Scarecrow."

"But he's alive," protested the man, "and he oughtn't to be, you know.
And that other dreadful person—the girl who is all patches—seems to
be alive, too."

"Very much so," declared Scraps, making a face at him. "But that isn't
your affair, you know."

"I've a right to be surprised, haven't I?" asked the man meekly.

"I'm not sure; but anyhow you've no right to say I'm dreadful. The
Scarecrow, who is a gentleman of great wisdom, thinks I'm beautiful,"
retorted Scraps.

"Never mind all that," said Dorothy. "Tell us, good Quadling, how we
can get across the river."

"I don't know," replied the Quadling.

"Don't you ever cross it?" asked the girl.

"Never."

"Don't travelers cross it?"

"Not to my knowledge," said he.

They were much surprised to hear this, and the man added: "It's a
pretty big river, and the current is strong. I know a man who lives on
the opposite bank, for I've seen him there a good many years; but we've
never spoken because neither of us has ever crossed over."

"That's queer," said the Scarecrow. "Don't you own a boat?"

The man shook his head.

"Nor a raft?"

"Where does this river go to?" asked Dorothy.

"That way," answered the man, pointing with one hand, "it goes into the
Country of the Winkies, which is ruled by the Tin Emperor, who must be
a mighty magician because he's all made of tin, and yet he's alive. And
that way," pointing with the other hand, "the river runs between two
mountains where dangerous people dwell."

The Scarecrow looked at the water before them.

"The current flows toward the Winkie Country," said he; "and so, if we
had a boat, or a raft, the river would float us there more quickly and
more easily than we could walk."

"That is true," agreed Dorothy; and then they all looked thoughtful and
wondered what could be done.

"Why can't the man make us a raft?" asked Ojo.

"Will you?" inquired Dorothy, turning to the Quadling.

The chubby man shook his head.

"I'm too lazy," he said. "My wife says I'm the laziest man in all Oz,
and she is a truthful woman. I hate work of any kind, and making a raft
is hard work."

"I'll give you my em'rald ring," promised the girl.

"No; I don't care for emeralds. If it were a ruby, which is the color I
like best, I might work a little while."

"I've got some Square Meal Tablets," said the Scarecrow. "Each one is
the same as a dish of soup, a fried fish, a mutton pot-pie, lobster
salad, charlotte russe and lemon jelly—all made into one little tablet
that you can swallow without trouble."

"Without trouble!" exclaimed the Quadling, much interested; "then those
tablets would be fine for a lazy man. It's such hard work to chew when
you eat."

"I'll give you six of those tablets if you'll help us make a raft,"
promised the Scarecrow. "They're a combination of food which people who
eat are very fond of. I never eat, you know, being straw; but some of
my friends eat regularly. What do you say to my offer, Quadling?"

"I'll do it," decided the man. "I'll help, and you can do most of the
work. But my wife has gone fishing for red eels to-day, so some of you
will have to mind the children."

Scraps promised to do that, and the children were not so shy when the
Patchwork Girl sat down to play with them. They grew to like Toto, too,
and the little dog allowed them to pat him on his head, which gave the
little ones much joy.

There were a number of fallen trees near the house and the Quadling got
his axe and chopped them into logs of equal length. He took his wife's
clothesline to bind these logs together, so that they would form a
raft, and Ojo found some strips of wood and nailed them along the tops
of the logs, to render them more firm. The Scarecrow and Dorothy helped
roll the logs together and carry the strips of wood, but it took so
long to make the raft that evening came just as it was finished, and
with evening the Quadling's wife returned from her fishing.

The woman proved to be cross and bad-tempered, perhaps because she had
only caught one red eel during all the day. When she found that her
husband had used her clothesline, and the logs she had wanted for
firewood, and the boards she had intended to mend the shed with, and a
lot of gold nails, she became very angry. Scraps wanted to shake the
woman, to make her behave, but Dorothy talked to her in a gentle tone
and told the Quadling's wife she was a Princess of Oz and a friend of
Ozma and that when she got back to the Emerald City she would send them
a lot of things to repay them for the raft, including a new
clothesline. This promise pleased the woman and she soon became more
pleasant, saying they could stay the night at her house and begin their
voyage on the river next morning.

This they did, spending a pleasant evening with the Quadling family and
being entertained with such hospitality as the poor people were able to
offer them. The man groaned a good deal and said he had overworked
himself by chopping the logs, but the Scarecrow gave him two more
tablets than he had promised, which seemed to comfort the lazy fellow.
