Ojo and Unc Nunkie

"Where's the butter, Unc Nunkie?" asked Ojo.

Unc looked out of the window and stroked his long beard. Then he turned
to the Munchkin boy and shook his head.

"Isn't," said he.

"Isn't any butter? That's too bad, Unc. Where's the jam then?" inquired
Ojo, standing on a stool so he could look through all the shelves of
the cupboard. But Unc Nunkie shook his head again.

"Gone," he said.

"No jam, either? And no cake—no jelly—no apples—nothing but bread?"

"All," said Unc, again stroking his beard as he gazed from the window.

The little boy brought the stool and sat beside his uncle, munching the
dry bread slowly and seeming in deep thought.

"Nothing grows in our yard but the bread tree," he mused, "and there
are only two more loaves on that tree; and they're not ripe yet. Tell
me, Unc; why are we so poor?"

The old Munchkin turned and looked at Ojo. He had kindly eyes, but he
hadn't smiled or laughed in so long that the boy had forgotten that Unc
Nunkie could look any other way than solemn. And Unc never spoke any
more words than he was obliged to, so his little nephew, who lived
alone with him, had learned to understand a great deal from one word.

"Why are we so poor, Unc?" repeated the boy.

"Not," said the old Munchkin.

"I think we are," declared Ojo. "What have we got?"

"House," said Unc Nunkie.

"I know; but everyone in the Land of Oz has a place to live. What else,
Unc?"

"Bread."

"I'm eating the last loaf that's ripe. There; I've put aside your
share, Unc. It's on the table, so you can eat it when you get hungry.
But when that is gone, what shall we eat, Unc?"

The old man shifted in his chair but merely shook his head.

"Of course," said Ojo, who was obliged to talk because his uncle would
not, "no one starves in the Land of Oz, either. There is plenty for
everyone, you know; only, if it isn't just where you happen to be, you
must go where it is."

The aged Munchkin wriggled again and stared at his small nephew as if
disturbed by his argument.

"By to-morrow morning," the boy went on, "we must go where there is
something to eat, or we shall grow very hungry and become very unhappy."

"Where?" asked Unc.

"Where shall we go? I don't know, I'm sure," replied Ojo. "But you must
know, Unc. You must have traveled, in your time, because you're so old.
I don't remember it, because ever since I could remember anything we've
lived right here in this lonesome, round house, with a little garden
back of it and the thick woods all around. All I've ever seen of the
great Land of Oz, Unc dear, is the view of that mountain over at the
south, where they say the Hammerheads live—who won't let anybody go by
them—and that mountain at the north, where they say nobody lives."

"One," declared Unc, correcting him.

"Oh, yes; one family lives there, I've heard. That's the Crooked
Magician, who is named Dr. Pipt, and his wife Margolotte. One year you
told me about them; I think it took you a whole year, Unc, to say as
much as I've just said about the Crooked Magician and his wife. They
live high up on the mountain, and the good Munchkin Country, where the
fruits and flowers grow, is just the other side. It's funny you and I
should live here all alone, in the middle of the forest, isn't it?"

"Yes," said Unc.

"Then let's go away and visit the Munchkin Country and its jolly,
good-natured people. I'd love to get a sight of something besides
woods, Unc Nunkie."

"Too little," said Unc.

"Why, I'm not so little as I used to be," answered the boy earnestly.
"I think I can walk as far and as fast through the woods as you can,
Unc. And now that nothing grows in our back yard that is good to eat,
we must go where there is food."

Unc Nunkie made no reply for a time. Then he shut down the window and
turned his chair to face the room, for the sun was sinking behind the
tree-tops and it was growing cool.

By and by Ojo lighted the fire and the logs blazed freely in the broad
fireplace. The two sat in the firelight a long time—the old,
white-bearded Munchkin and the little boy. Both were thinking. When it
grew quite dark outside, Ojo said:

"Eat your bread, Unc, and then we will go to bed."

But Unc Nunkie did not eat the bread; neither did he go directly to
bed. Long after his little nephew was sound asleep in the corner of the
room the old man sat by the fire, thinking.
