Shaggy Man to the Rescue

They had not gone very far before Bungle, who had run on ahead, came
bounding back to say that the road of yellow bricks was just before
them. At once they hurried forward to see what this famous road looked
like.

It was a broad road, but not straight, for it wandered over hill and
dale and picked out the easiest places to go. All its length and
breadth was paved with smooth bricks of a bright yellow color, so it
was smooth and level except in a few places where the bricks had
crumbled or been removed, leaving holes that might cause the unwary to
stumble.

"I wonder," said Ojo, looking up and down the road, "which way to go."

"Where are you bound for?" asked the Woozy.

"The Emerald City," he replied.

"Then go west," said the Woozy. "I know this road pretty well, for I've
chased many a honey-bee over it."

"Have you ever been to the Emerald City?" asked Scraps.

"No. I am very shy by nature, as you may have noticed, so I haven't
mingled much in society."

"Are you afraid of men?" inquired the Patchwork Girl.

"Me? With my heart-rending growl—my horrible, shudderful growl? I
should say not. I am not afraid of anything," declared the Woozy.

"I wish I could say the same," sighed Ojo. "I don't think we need be
afraid when we get to the Emerald City, for Unc Nunkie has told me that
Ozma, our girl Ruler, is very lovely and kind, and tries to help
everyone who is in trouble. But they say there are many dangers lurking
on the road to the great Fairy City, and so we must be very careful."

"I hope nothing will break me," said the Glass Cat, in a nervous voice.
"I'm a little brittle, you know, and can't stand many hard knocks."

"If anything should fade the colors of my lovely patches it would break
my heart," said the Patchwork Girl.

"I'm not sure you have a heart," Ojo reminded her.

"Then it would break my cotton," persisted Scraps. "Do you think they
are all fast colors, Ojo?" she asked anxiously.

"They seem fast enough when you run," he replied; and then, looking
ahead of them, he exclaimed: "Oh, what lovely trees!"

They were certainly pretty to look upon and the travelers hurried
forward to observe them more closely.

"Why, they are not trees at all," said Scraps; "they are just monstrous
plants."

That is what they really were: masses of great broad leaves which rose
from the ground far into the air, until they towered twice as high as
the top of the Patchwork Girl's head, who was a little taller than Ojo.
The plants formed rows on both sides of the road and from each plant
rose a dozen or more of the big broad leaves, which swayed continually
from side to side, although no wind was blowing. But the most curious
thing about the swaying leaves was their color. They seemed to have a
general groundwork of blue, but here and there other colors glinted at
times through the blue—gorgeous yellows, turning to pink, purple,
orange and scarlet, mingled with more sober browns and grays—each
appearing as a blotch or stripe anywhere on a leaf and then
disappearing, to be replaced by some other color of a different shape.
The changeful coloring of the great leaves was very beautiful, but it
was bewildering, as well, and the novelty of the scene drew our
travelers close to the line of plants, where they stood watching them
with rapt interest.

Suddenly a leaf bent lower than usual and touched the Patchwork Girl.
Swiftly it enveloped her in its embrace, covering her completely in its
thick folds, and then it swayed back upon its stem.

"Why, she's gone!" gasped Ojo, in amazement, and listening carefully he
thought he could hear the muffled screams of Scraps coming from the
center of the folded leaf. But, before he could think what he ought to
do to save her, another leaf bent down and captured the Glass Cat,
rolling around the little creature until she was completely hidden, and
then straightening up again upon its stem.

"Look out," cried the Woozy. "Run! Run fast, or you are lost."

Ojo turned and saw the Woozy running swiftly up the road. But the last
leaf of the row of plants seized the beast even as he ran and instantly
he disappeared from sight.

The boy had no chance to escape. Half a dozen of the great leaves were
bending toward him from different directions and as he stood hesitating
one of them clutched him in its embrace. In a flash he was in the dark.
Then he felt himself gently lifted until he was swaying in the air,
with the folds of the leaf hugging him on all sides.

At first he struggled hard to escape, crying out in anger: "Let me go!
Let me go!" But neither struggles nor protests had any effect whatever.
The leaf held him firmly and he was a prisoner.

Then Ojo quieted himself and tried to think. Despair fell upon him when
he remembered that all his little party had been captured, even as he
was, and there was none to save them.

"I might have expected it," he sobbed, miserably. "I'm Ojo the Unlucky,
and something dreadful was sure to happen to me."

He pushed against the leaf that held him and found it to be soft, but
thick and firm. It was like a great bandage all around him and he found
it difficult to move his body or limbs in order to change their
position.

The minutes passed and became hours. Ojo wondered how long one could
live in such a condition and if the leaf would gradually sap his
strength and even his life, in order to feed itself. The little
Munchkin boy had never heard of any person dying in the Land of Oz, but
he knew one could suffer a great deal of pain. His greatest fear at
this time was that he would always remain imprisoned in the beautiful
leaf and never see the light of day again.

No sound came to him through the leaf; all around was intense silence.
Ojo wondered if Scraps had stopped screaming, or if the folds of the
leaf prevented his hearing her. By and by he thought he heard a
whistle, as of some one whistling a tune. Yes; it really must be some
one whistling, he decided, for he could follow the strains of a pretty
Munchkin melody that Unc Nunkie used to sing to him. The sounds were
low and sweet and, although they reached Ojo's ears very faintly, they
were clear and harmonious.

Could the leaf whistle, Ojo wondered? Nearer and nearer came the sounds
and then they seemed to be just the other side of the leaf that was
hugging him.

Suddenly the whole leaf toppled and fell, carrying the boy with it, and
while he sprawled at full length the folds slowly relaxed and set him
free. He scrambled quickly to his feet and found that a strange man was
standing before him—a man so curious in appearance that the boy stared
with round eyes.

He was a big man, with shaggy whiskers, shaggy eyebrows, shaggy
hair—but kindly blue eyes that were gentle as those of a cow. On his
head was a green velvet hat with a jeweled band, which was all shaggy
around the brim. Rich but shaggy laces were at his throat; a coat with
shaggy edges was decorated with diamond buttons; the velvet breeches
had jeweled buckles at the knees and shags all around the bottoms. On
his breast hung a medallion bearing a picture of Princess Dorothy of
Oz, and in his hand, as he stood looking at Ojo, was a sharp knife
shaped like a dagger.

"Oh!" exclaimed Ojo, greatly astonished at the sight of this stranger;
and then he added: "Who has saved me, sir?"

"Can't you see?" replied the other, with a smile; "I'm the Shaggy Man."

"Yes; I can see that," said the boy, nodding. "Was it you who rescued
me from the leaf?"

"None other, you may be sure. But take care, or I shall have to rescue
you again."

Ojo gave a jump, for he saw several broad leaves leaning toward him;
but the Shaggy Man began to whistle again, and at the sound the leaves
all straightened up on their stems and kept still.

The man now took Ojo's arm and led him up the road, past the last of
the great plants, and not till he was safely beyond their reach did he
cease his whistling.

"You see, the music charms 'em," said he. "Singing or whistling—it
doesn't matter which—makes 'em behave, and nothing else will. I always
whistle as I go by 'em and so they always let me alone. To-day as I
went by, whistling, I saw a leaf curled and knew there must be
something inside it. I cut down the leaf with my knife and—out you
popped. Lucky I passed by, wasn't it?"

"You were very kind," said Ojo, "and I thank you. Will you please
rescue my companions, also?"

"What companions?" asked the Shaggy Man.

"The leaves grabbed them all," said the boy. "There's a Patchwork Girl
and—"

"A what?"

"A girl made of patchwork, you know. She's alive and her name is
Scraps. And there's a Glass Cat—"

"Glass?" asked the Shaggy Man.

"All glass."

"And alive?"

"Yes," said Ojo; "she has pink brains. And there's a Woozy—"

"What's a Woozy?" inquired the Shaggy Man.

"Why, I—I—can't describe it," answered the boy, greatly perplexed.
"But it's a queer animal with three hairs on the tip of its tail that
won't come out and—"

"What won't come out?" asked the Shaggy Man; "the tail?"

"The hairs won't come out. But you'll see the Woozy, if you'll please
rescue it, and then you'll know just what it is."

"Of course," said the Shaggy Man, nodding his shaggy head. And then he
walked back among the plants, still whistling, and found the three
leaves which were curled around Ojo's traveling companions. The first
leaf he cut down released Scraps, and on seeing her the Shaggy Man
threw back his shaggy head, opened wide his mouth and laughed so
shaggily and yet so merrily that Scraps liked him at once. Then he took
off his hat and made her a low bow, saying:

"My dear, you're a wonder. I must introduce you to my friend the
Scarecrow."

When he cut down the second leaf he rescued the Glass Cat, and Bungle
was so frightened that she scampered away like a streak and soon had
joined Ojo, when she sat beside him panting and trembling. The last
plant of all the row had captured the Woozy, and a big bunch in the
center of the curled leaf showed plainly where he was. With his sharp
knife the Shaggy Man sliced off the stem of the leaf and as it fell and
unfolded out trotted the Woozy and escaped beyond the reach of any more
of the dangerous plants.
