Jack Pumpkinhead’s Ride to the Emerald City

At daybreak Tip was awakened by the Pumpkinhead. He rubbed the sleep from his
eyes, bathed in a little brook, and then ate a portion of his bread and cheese.
Having thus prepared for a new day the boy said:

“Let us start at once. Nine miles is quite a distance, but we ought to
reach the Emerald City by noon if no accidents happen.” So the
Pumpkinhead was again perched upon the back of the Saw-Horse and the journey
was resumed.

Tip noticed that the purple tint of the grass and trees had now faded to a dull
lavender, and before long this lavender appeared to take on a greenish tinge
that gradually brightened as they drew nearer to the great City where the
Scarecrow ruled.

The little party had traveled but a short two miles upon their way when the
road of yellow brick was parted by a broad and swift river. Tip was puzzled how
to cross over; but after a time he discovered a man in a ferry-boat approaching
from the other side of the stream.

When the man reached the bank Tip asked:

“Will you row us to the other side?”

“Yes, if you have money,” returned the ferryman, whose face looked
cross and disagreeable.

“But I have no money,” said Tip.

“None at all?” inquired the man.

“None at all,” answered the boy.

“Then I’ll not break my back rowing you over,” said the
ferryman, decidedly.

“What a nice man!” remarked the Pumpkinhead, smilingly.

The ferryman stared at him, but made no reply. Tip was trying to think, for it
was a great disappointment to him to find his journey so suddenly brought to an
end.

“I must certainly get to the Emerald City,” he said to the boatman;
“but how can I cross the river if you do not take me?”

The man laughed, and it was not a nice laugh.

“That wooden horse will float,” said he; “and you can ride
him across. As for the pumpkinheaded loon who accompanies you, let him sink or
swim it won’t matter greatly which.”

“Don’t worry about me,” said Jack, smiling pleasantly upon
the crabbed ferryman; “I’m sure I ought to float
beautifully.”

Tip thought the experiment was worth making, and the Saw-Horse, who did not
know what danger meant, offered no objections whatever. So the boy led it down
into the water and climbed upon its back. Jack also waded in up to his knees
and grasped the tail of the horse so that he might keep his pumpkin head above
the water.

“Now,” said Tip, instructing the Saw-Horse, “if you wiggle
your legs you will probably swim; and if you swim we shall probably reach the
other side.”

The Saw-Horse at once began to wiggle its legs, which acted as oars and moved
the adventurers slowly across the river to the opposite side. So successful was
the trip that presently they were climbing, wet and dripping, up the grassy
bank.

Tip’s trouser-legs and shoes were thoroughly soaked; but the Saw-Horse
had floated so perfectly that from his knees up the boy was entirely dry. As
for the Pumpkinhead, every stitch of his gorgeous clothing dripped water.

“The sun will soon dry us,” said Tip “and, anyhow, we are now
safely across, in spite of the ferryman, and can continue our journey.”

“I didn’t mind swimming, at all,” remarked the horse.

“Nor did I,” added Jack.

They soon regained the road of yellow brick, which proved to be a continuation
of the road they had left on the other side, and then Tip once more mounted the
Pumpkinhead upon the back of the Saw-Horse.

“If you ride fast,” said he, “the wind will help to dry your
clothing. I will hold on to the horse’s tail and run after you. In this
way we all will become dry in a very short time.”

“Then the horse must step lively,” said Jack.

“I’ll do my best,” returned the Saw-Horse, cheerfully.

Tip grasped the end of the branch that served as tail to the Saw-Horse, and
called loudly: “Get-up!”

The horse started at a good pace, and Tip followed behind. Then he decided they
could go faster, so he shouted: “Trot!”

Now, the Saw-Horse remembered that this word was the command to go as fast as
he could; so he began rocking along the road at a tremendous pace, and Tip had
hard work—running faster than he ever had before in his life—to
keep his feet.

Soon he was out of breath, and although he wanted to call “Whoa!”
to the horse, he found he could not get the word out of his throat. Then the
end of the tail he was clutching, being nothing more than a dead branch,
suddenly broke away, and the next minute the boy was rolling in the dust of the
road, while the horse and its pumpkin-headed rider dashed on and quickly
disappeared in the distance.

By the time Tip had picked himself up and cleared the dust from his throat so
he could say “Whoa!” there was no further need of saying it, for
the horse was long since out of sight.

So he did the only sensible thing he could do. He sat down and took a good
rest, and afterward began walking along the road.

“Some time I will surely overtake them,” he reflected; “for
the road will end at the gates of the Emerald City, and they can go no further
than that.”

Meantime Jack was holding fast to the post and the Saw-Horse was tearing along
the road like a racer. Neither of them knew Tip was left behind, for the
Pumpkinhead did not look around and the Saw-Horse couldn’t.

As he rode, Jack noticed that the grass and trees had become a bright
emerald-green in color, so he guessed they were nearing the Emerald City even
before the tall spires and domes came into sight.

At length a high wall of green stone, studded thick with emeralds, loomed up
before them; and fearing the Saw-Horse would not know enough to stop and so
might smash them both against this wall, Jack ventured to cry
“Whoa!” as loud as he could.

So suddenly did the horse obey that had it not been for his post Jack would
have been pitched off head foremost, and his beautiful face ruined.

“That was a fast ride, dear father!” he exclaimed; and then,
hearing no reply, he turned around and discovered for the first time that Tip
was not there.

This apparent desertion puzzled the Pumpkinhead, and made him uneasy. And while
he was wondering what had become of the boy, and what he ought to do next under
such trying circumstances, the gateway in the green wall opened and a man came
out.

This man was short and round, with a fat face that seemed remarkably
good-natured. He was clothed all in green and wore a high, peaked green hat
upon his head and green spectacles over his eyes. Bowing before the Pumpkinhead
he said:

“I am the Guardian of the Gates of the Emerald City. May I inquire who
you are, and what is your business?”

“My name is Jack Pumpkinhead,” returned the other, smilingly;
“but as to my business, I haven’t the least idea in the world what
it is.”

The Guardian of the Gates looked surprised, and shook his head as if
dissatisfied with the reply.

“What are you, a man or a pumpkin?” he asked, politely.

“Both, if you please,” answered Jack.

“And this wooden horse—is it alive?” questioned the Guardian.

The horse rolled one knotty eye upward and winked at Jack. Then it gave a
prance and brought one leg down on the Guardian’s toes.

“Ouch!” cried the man; “I’m sorry I asked that
question. But the answer is most convincing. Have you any errand, sir, in the
Emerald City?”

“It seems to me that I have,” replied the Pumpkinhead, seriously;
“but I cannot think what it is. My father knows all about it, but he is
not here.”

“This is a strange affair very strange!” declared the Guardian.
“But you seem harmless. Folks do not smile so delightfully when they mean
mischief.”

“As for that,” said Jack, “I cannot help my smile, for it is
carved on my face with a jack-knife.”

“Well, come with me into my room,” resumed the Guardian, “and
I will see what can be done for you.”

So Jack rode the Saw-Horse through the gateway into a little room built into
the wall. The Guardian pulled a bell-cord, and presently a very tall
soldier—clothed in a green uniform—entered from the opposite door.
This soldier carried a long green gun over his shoulder and had lovely green
whiskers that fell quite to his knees. The Guardian at once addressed him,
saying:

“Here is a strange gentleman who doesn’t know why he has come to
the Emerald City, or what he wants. Tell me, what shall we do with him?”

The Soldier with the Green Whiskers looked at Jack with much care and
curiosity. Finally he shook his head so positively that little waves rippled
down his whiskers, and then he said:

“I must take him to His Majesty, the Scarecrow.”

“But what will His Majesty, the Scarecrow, do with him?” asked the
Guardian of the Gates.

“That is His Majesty’s business,” returned the soldier.
“I have troubles enough of my own. All outside troubles must be turned
over to His Majesty. So put the spectacles on this fellow, and I’ll take
him to the royal palace.”

So the Guardian opened a big box of spectacles and tried to fit a pair to
Jack’s great round eyes.

“I haven’t a pair in stock that will really cover those eyes
up,” said the little man, with a sigh; “and your head is so big
that I shall be obliged to tie the spectacles on.”

“But why need I wear spectacles?” asked Jack.

“It’s the fashion here,” said the Soldier, “and they
will keep you from being blinded by the glitter and glare of the gorgeous
Emerald City.”

“Oh!” exclaimed Jack. “Tie them on, by all means. I
don’t wish to be blinded.”

“Nor I!” broke in the Saw-Horse; so a pair of green spectacles was
quickly fastened over the bulging knots that served it for eyes.

Then the Soldier with the Green Whiskers led them through the inner gate and
they at once found themselves in the main street of the magnificent Emerald
City.

Sparkling green gems ornamented the fronts of the beautiful houses and the
towers and turrets were all faced with emeralds. Even the green marble pavement
glittered with precious stones, and it was indeed a grand and marvelous sight
to one who beheld it for the first time.

However, the Pumpkinhead and the Saw-Horse, knowing nothing of wealth and
beauty, paid little attention to the wonderful sights they saw through their
green spectacles. They calmly followed after the green soldier and scarcely
noticed the crowds of green people who stared at them in surprise. When a green
dog ran out and barked at them the Saw-Horse promptly kicked at it with its
wooden leg and sent the little animal howling into one of the houses; but
nothing more serious than this happened to interrupt their progress to the
royal palace.

The Pumpkinhead wanted to ride up the green marble steps and straight into the
Scarecrow’s presence; but the soldier would not permit that. So Jack
dismounted, with much difficulty, and a servant led the Saw-Horse around to the
rear while the Soldier with the Green Whiskers escorted the Pumpkinhead into
the palace, by the front entrance.

The stranger was left in a handsomely furnished waiting room while the soldier
went to announce him. It so happened that at this hour His Majesty was at
leisure and greatly bored for want of something to do, so he ordered his
visitor to be shown at once into his throne room.

Jack felt no fear or embarrassment at meeting the ruler of this magnificent
city, for he was entirely ignorant of all worldly customs. But when he entered
the room and saw for the first time His Majesty the Scarecrow seated upon his
glittering throne, he stopped short in amazement.
